foreign
we all get scared sometimes and so we
all get into power dynamics sometimes
it's the way it is it doesn't matter how
old you are almost and it and it
definitely doesn't matter
how much you've meditated you know
there's if there wasn't some of this
tension we wouldn't be alive
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
[Music]
foreign
welcome back Joe We are continuing into
our emotions Series yeah we've been kind
of having a pretty good run at fear
lately uh just finished up the fear and
anxiety episode and we still have a
little bit more to talk about with
regards to fear right fear and anxiety
we left it at
we did the fear General we did the
anxiety but I think there's the power
dynamics that we haven't really touched
yet yes yeah power dynamics fear
triangle
how fear it influences the way that we
see Power and
get into games around it you know yeah I
remember there was a I have this story
and and it doesn't relate to power so
much but it kind of does so I I want to
share it
I remember
um I was really into non-duality I think
it was like around 30 years old or
something and I was really into
non-duality and I was like collecting
different teachers who had different
ways to see it
and um one of the teachers he said uh
his name was uh Stephen Harrison and and
he said
um
he said power is the ultimate expression
of fear
and so I was like cool that like it
resonated it made so much sense to me
and then I came across a book that uh
somebody recommended called The Power of
Now by a guy named Eckhart Tolle
and I was like
ultimate expression of fear
[Laughter]
oh he needs to have power uh ultimate
expression of fear teaching other people
to have power the ultimate expression of
here and then I was in this uh hot
springs and they had this video thing
happening and it was Eckhart Tolle and I
listened I was like oh my God that guy's
saying the same thing as as Stephen
Harrison very different way but same
thing and then I found out he was the
author of The Power of Now right and and
I was like and
so I'll start off on that which is that
even that even that that whole thing of
me saying power
like that power that means an expression
of fear that was me trying to have power
over my reality that was my allergy to
that word that was my expression of fear
right oh my I I can't just be in the
unknown of Life uh evolving in the way
that it does I need to be able to have
some sort of like control mechanism and
and that created the ignorance and that
in itself was all fear like I needed
something to hold on to which is even
more hilarious when you think about the
way that Stephen Harrison teaches which
is he destroys everything you think you
yeah everything that you uh you try to
hold on to so that yes power dynamics as
an expression of fear yeah let's talk
about it yeah all right so how fear
creates power dynamics we've talked a
lot about something called The Fear
triangle before yeah and we've we've
kind of touched on it a number of
different times in several different
episodes but we really haven't
dropped into
like a comprehensive description of the
fear triangle what it is and then sort
of the underlying power dynamics and
then some of the peripheral stuff that
happens around it
so let's go into that let me pull up
just a second before we do so on the
general power dynamics
basically all power dynamics are is a
two people who are scared I'm not
talking about play power dynamics not
like agreed upon like oh yeah let's
let's have a game of power dynamics I'm
or sexual power dynamics I'm talking
about
a boss and
um their peer getting into a fight or a
wife and a and a husband getting into a
fight or two friends you know I'm
talking about when
somebody wants to get their way and the
other person wants to get their way
around something so that that's what I'm
talking about when I say power dynamics
and
it's always based in a fear it's always
based in fear and
and the most simple way to look at it
even more simple than the drama triangle
is to see that it's two people who think
they're defending themselves
and think the other person is attacking
them so
one person feels like they're defending
and the other person feels like they're
being attacked
and so both people walk around thinking
what they just said was a defense and
what and like no that you don't
understand and the other person is
hearing that as an attack
and I'm not saying which is true or not
true but that is the basic structure of
all of it and you can whether you think
of that in a political system right
where one group thinks they're defending
themselves or the other group feels like
they're being attacked or a marriage
and if you can see it that way if you
can see all of these
conflicts where someone's trying to have
power over the other person it
immediately the whole thing dissolves
you're just like oh wait a second okay
that person's not trying to attack me
that person thinks they're defending
themselves right now it seems like this
comes from that that characteristic of
fear where we go into binary thinking
yes and then we start to think that it's
a win or lose thing you can win the
argument or lose the arguments you can
have somebody see your position or they
just don't because they're stupid right
and yeah
yeah in this both people are scared that
they're going to lose something that
they love both people are scared that
they're going to be controlled or
whatever they're scared of they're
they're both scared maybe of different
things but they're both scared
and the fear either presents itself and
fight flight or freeze
and
the flight is uh the most complicated so
we'll start with the other ones the
fight is like the bully behavior of the
fear triangle
and the freeze is the victim behavior of
the fear triangle
and the flight is the savior
and savior means and the flight means
that you've left yourself and you're
going outside of the world to other
people to control them so that they will
make you feel safe so all the
complication the way that people can't
see each other the way that they feel
like they're being attacked when they're
when the other person's actually
defending themselves
is all because of the way in which the
fear Works in inside of the person
and they call this the drama triangle
and and like if you go to
kind of the uh like psychological theory
they call it the drama triangle I call
it the fear triangle because
all of the behaviors are driven out of
this fear and they're driven out of the
flight fright or freeze
um situation and they all have an
emotional signature with them
which is also usually not explained and
the emotional signature of the savior is
a sense of obligation responsibility
and the victim is stuck I feel stuck
and the bully feels like they're all
alone in it no one is helping them they
have to be self-reliant
and that those are the emotional
signatures of those of those particular
places and so I've been in
like rooms in companies with like
you know whatever 100 120 men and this
time it was men it was like they had
this company was doing something to help
men with EQ and so a whole bunch of
Engineers and I kind of put them out
into Corners I are you are you the fight
are you the flight are you the freeze
and then I put them into corners and
then I had them like hey Fighters you
know bullies like I didn't call them
bullies because nobody wants first of
all the first thing is they all had
shame they all had shame around
what they were
the fighters were ashamed of being
Fighters the the freezers were ashamed
of being freezers and the flight was
ashamed of being flight but the other
thing that happened is that they got to
see hey Fighters like when you fight and
somebody doesn't fight back when they
walk away from you
how does that feel in your system that
feels like an attack feels like they've
disengaged it feels like they're
punishing me by leaving yeah aggression
some form of withdrawal yeah hey
freezers what what does it sound feel
like when someone's fighting with you
and you're trying to leave well it feels
like they're trying to control me even
more like so and so this is where that
lack of understanding makes it hard for
people to resolve their own issues with
one another and it sounds like a lot of
the behavior that comes out in in the
drama triangle pattern and the fear
triangle pattern is actually coming from
the avoidance of those underlying
feelings those under underlying fears to
to avoid feeling stuck
you
buy the story more deeply that you are
stuck and then you might find yourself
using guilt or some form of power under
manipulation to get what you want and
get somebody to stop
having power over you or abusing power
over you in your story
and the same can be true for the Savior
and for the bully that's right yeah so
the the way I think about that and we've
talked about this in other podcasts is
that the the thing that they're trying
to avoid is the thing that they're
inviting through the way that they're
trying to avoid it so if there's
someone's more in the victim where
they're more in the um the freeze then
they're more likely to be passive or
covertly aggressive if they're passive
and covertly aggressive and they do that
so that they feel like of some semblance
of empowerment so they feel some
semblance of not being stuck not the
actual not being stuck but they're
trying to avoid that feeling and that
passive aggression immediately makes
people feel agitated around them and
then they feel more stuck
because it's the agitation of other
people that's creating that feeling of
stuckness and so it's like that with the
bully as well so the bully doesn't want
to feel alone and so when that feeling
of like I'm all alone in this they puff
out their chest they they're like well
then [__] you all I'm not you know like
they don't want to feel that experience
and that immediately drives people away
from them and then immediately make
creates that reality of loneliness so
it's
the same with the Savior we'll go to the
Savior too the Savior feels that feeling
of obligation so they caretake people
this all happens in many ways but I'm
just giving you one of the ways if you
care to take somebody then they feel
like you're telling them they're not
capable
like oh make sure that you do blah blah
blah it's like oh [__] really you think
I'm not an adult well you know like you
think that I can't handle my own anger
or whatever it is and there then
resentment builds right and so they
don't feel safe they don't feel safe and
then they feel more obligated and so
these These are the cycles that we get
into and it's why when you're in those
kind of power dynamics everybody feels
so helpless and frustrated
it's because it's like [__] I don't know
how to get out of this because we're
driving the thing that we don't want to
us through our actions that we use to
try to avoid it I think it's it's
interesting that we can also have all
three of these different forms of fear
show up in our system and
kind of like flashing between one and
another the the Savior the Savior might
have the the flight to go try to fix the
world around them to try to fix the
fight that Mommy and Daddy are in yeah
you know in their world and then by
doing that they'll go and they'll bully
the bully
or you know they'll even bully the
victim about the victim's story that
they're stuck in and how they should
just grow up uh or they'll buy this you
know the victim story and they'll do
some
uh some kind of power under a guilt trip
Dynamic on the bully and then the bully
will feel more alone and then they'll
feel more likely to to rage and attack
both and
we can and a lot of things that you've
that we've seen too are that the bully
and the victim can kind of flash back
and forth a lot where somebody will be
feeling like they're in freeze and then
suddenly jump out of it and start
attacking and then go back to freeze yes
yeah so so it's interesting the way it
works is that the way I see it work is
that
internally we have
um different voices in our head and we
have a voice in our head talking to us
and all we'll play all three roles
who will play the role of bully and that
might sound like
dude you got to stop talking over people
and then we'll play the role of victim
which is I've tried to stop but I can't
stop I just 20 years I've been trying to
stop I can't stop
and then we'll play there we'll say Okay
so this time we're going to do this and
this and this I'm going to get a
reminder on my phone and blah blah blah
all three of those things are happening
all based out of fear all inside of us
that's the internal version of it and so
of course when we have an internal
version of it we have an external
version of it and the external version
of that is you can see people run
through all of these things in it like
sometimes in a minute but there's
usually one that's kind of their
Forefront in that
area like if you go into a family and
the dad is is going to run one of these
traits with the family members most
often and everybody can identify it
and underneath the service all three of
the things will be happening
so let's say that the dad plays the
victim role and so you can tell because
it's kind of passive aggressive
you can tell it because there's like a
uh there's like maybe a lot of lateness
for somebody who cares about tardiness
maybe there's a whole bunch of chores
that aren't done maybe
so you can see all that behavior in
there
but occasionally they're going to go wow
you God damn it like don't you trust me
and and occasionally they're gonna try
to they're walking on eggshells to make
sure that the bully is happy so all of
those things is gonna are gonna happen
but there's gonna be one that's kind of
the dominant one under that situation
and what's fascinating to me is
oftentimes people can be the bully at
home in the victim in office
or whatever the Savior at home and the
bully in the office so it's really
circumstantial which is totally
fascinating to me it's interesting I'd
like to relate this back to the previous
episode that we did on on anxiety where
a lot of times you'll see when when
someone is in an anxious state which is
by our previous definition that there's
some constriction of life force that
could be some constricted fear it could
also be some something else constricted
essentially being afraid of their own
experience that when they're in that
state they're far more likely to be in
the Triangle Dynamic correct and they're
far more likely to exhibit any of these
behaviors so that just kind of points
back to that whole episode as something
that can be done about when you identify
one of these Dynamics in your own life I
think that's the biggest question so
when I'm teaching this at a retreat or
something like that the biggest thing
that happens people go okay so now how
do I act not from that place
which in itself is a bit of
um savior yeah yeah uh fear triangle
inside of themselves
um
and the the answer isn't trying to
modulate how you act it's it's being
with the fear it's having a different
relationship with the fear and it is not
okay so if I act this way in this way
I'm not in the the drama triangle and if
you're not acting out of the fear you're
not in it and and it might even be the
same behavior that comes out
of you
but it's very different with the
emotional signature
right you might say to somebody hey
that's not going to work for me
and that's not from the fear triangle
and it's like hey that's not going to
work for me is could be from the fear
triangle just because of the emotional
signature behind it so getting back to
what you mentioned earlier in the sort
of the intro to this episode how you had
this idea you learned that power is
something that comes from fear and maybe
you're over attached to that particular
definition of power and that collided
with Eckhart Tolle's you know book title
but let's talk a little bit about that
power versus Empower and we can also
just to hearken back we've done an
episode on Empower overpower highly
recommend it to anyone who's interested
in going deeper on this particular
subject
but I'd like to bring this into this
conversation right now what is the
difference for you between those things
uh so if I am operating out of my fear
then I'm in the dynamic the drama
triangle if I'm not operating out of
fear then I am
I'm cool with whatever consequences come
by me being authentic and being true to
myself and I don't mean cool like go
ahead bring it on and then I go fight I
mean cool like I'm happy if they need to
yell at me like cool with and
but I'm going to be true to myself this
is this is the more important thing and
if you can let go of the consequences in
that way
then there's a deeply empowered state
and the consequences that people can
hold over you just evaporate you know
the other day I had a conversation with
one of some you know coaching somebody
at a really big organization and
the head of Human Resources calls me up
and he goes we're just deciding if we're
going to pay you again next year and and
I was like oh yeah so I don't serve you
I served the executive that's my job
I'm not here to serve you if you need me
to serve you I am the wrong coach for
you
because it's just way out of alignment
for me and so this whole power Dynamic
just fizzled because there was nothing
in me that was worried about losing
this thing if this is what needs to
happen I'm happy to lose it because it's
it's inconsistent with how I want to be
in the world
there isn't there they didn't have any
power over me and so so that's an
example of
what it's like to be in an empowered
State means I know principally that if I
behave this way my life is the life that
I want
if I don't my life is not the life I
want so I'm not going to behave outside
of that for some future reward some
potential future reward or some
potential
um avoidance of punishment so it sounds
like power
power is when it's contingent to
something happening yeah and empowered
is it's not actually contingent to any
outcome it's contingent to how you are
going to experience yourself power can
be taken away from you
if you're worried about it if you're
worried about losing it it's power
[Music]
yeah including Financial power Social
Power all of it all of it if you're
worried about losing its power
which is amazing because that's often
the the cause of a lot of the fear is
right so I hadn't thought about it this
way but hey let me see if I can
articulate this I'm not sure if I can
there's a drama triangle it's because
you're scared of losing something and
oftentimes the thing that you're scared
of losing is power
because when you are empowered there's
no fear of losing it so there's not as
much reason to be scared generally
and so I've never recognized this but
now that I say it I can feel it in my in
my system and in my past is that it's a
virtuous cycle
the more you're you recognize that your
authenticity creates the life that you
want rather than accumulation of power
or things
then the less there is to lose and
therefore the less fear and therefore
the less drama
the less of this triangle that you're in
so yeah I've never thought about that
way but it's it wow resonates deeply
with me yeah yeah that thinking about
the way that we get uh
the way that feeling feeling allowing
ourselves to feel emotions can get us
out of the triangle sometimes it's fear
but sometimes it might be I've seen
times when you even see this in movies
where somebody who's being a bully for
the entire movie
suddenly has like they're brought face
to face with some reality that they had
been not seeing and then they break down
they cry and there's grief yeah and
there's hurt and they show their hurt
and then others who they were in the
triangle with see that hurt and they're
they see A New Perspective and then they
have their own emotional process and
then the whole thing Falls away and so
it could be the fear of different
emotions within us it could be fear of
feeling grief that makes us you know get
angry around
anything that has to do with the idea of
our business failing or our you know our
marriage failing or a friend being any
loss of identity really yeah any loss of
identity really will create a lot of
fear for people for for most people
unless they're unless they have a lot of
experience losing their identity you
know years of transformation work you
know or
happens to be disposed that way that
it's okay for their identity to shift
yeah right which which points to
something else that you're in your story
earlier about how quickly this Dynamic
can fall away whether it's a dynamic
with a group of people or an internal
Dynamic with yourself about your
identity the moment you actually allow
the tension to process through to be
felt yeah and allow that that sense of
identity whatever it is that you're
attached to and holding on to to Fall
Away
then it's amazing how fast the dynamic
in your life Falls away too oh yeah I
mean it's instantaneous once you see it
it's just whoosh just goes away what's
interesting is I often will ask people
like what are you defending because we
all say we're defending us I'm defending
myself but what like what what's the you
that you're defending exactly like Okay
so this person I I don't feel seen I
have to be seen I'm defending the fact
that I'm actually a good person
so what if someone doesn't see that
you're a good person who actually gets
hurt like you know like what's the thing
that you're actually protecting and and
what makes you think it's destroyable
you know like so oftentimes there's one
look at it which is just when you feel
the tension it can drop away another is
to just see that the whole thing is a
ruse like that it's a card game right or
a shell game there's nothing underneath
any of them there's nothing to defend
I was just talking to a client about
this the other day and and somebody in
in the circle of people I've worked with
um ran across a big challenge internal
struggle for him and did not want to
work it out and wanted to avoid it and
and I don't push people to do things
that they don't want to do and so you
left and this the other person my circle
was like oh my gosh we need to make sure
that this doesn't hurt the reputation
and you know I love your work and I want
it out in the world and I was like I'm
I'm there's no way I'm doing that
there's no way I'm going to defend
myself because it's so antithetical to
my empowerment and it's also usually
doesn't do good it usually doesn't do
great work for you like it doesn't
increase your reputation and it also it
puts me into the to the fear triangle
which I don't want to be in I'd I'd
rather have all the work that I'm doing
in the world collapse
then choose to get in a fight with
somebody or think I have something to
defend you know and so it's really it's
a fascinating when when you're there
there's a tremendous amount of freedom
and there are definitely moments where
you're like oh I have to be with this
fear you know you get it's not like it's
Fearless it's it I'm sure it's very much
like when you would jump off
um
huge Bridges or Cliffs or whatnot
there's a moment where you're like oh
wow really and there's this recognition
that oh every time
that I choose my authenticity eventually
it was the right move
and eventually the world meets me as who
I am not who I think I'm supposed to be
yeah which speaks to sort of the the
increasing subtlety of our journey you
know for me early on base jumping and
just Air Sports in general were a way
for me to be authentic and then there
were also ways that I was inauthentic
within them and you know like the the
journey over over decades has been to
recognize when I'm standing on an exit
point
how much of what I'm doing is coming
from a sense of some sense of fear if I
do this jump and then I'm seen as the
person who's capable of doing this Jump
skillfully Then what do I get what power
do I get in the world what social clout
do I get what events do I get invited to
uh what sponsors might I get and all
those different incentives can kind of
come in and I imagine this might be true
for for you and the role that you that
you have as a coach where there's
probably a lot of times where people
would be just looking for even the
subtlest defensiveness in you to be like
ah see I can't trust him look he's they
won't he's somebody who's just like
talking all over this game and he's even
he's just a little bit defensive right
now so like
there Emperor has no clothes totally
looking for imperfection you can
absolutely find it in me and
and in every single way there is nothing
in humanity that isn't in me and that
doesn't rear its head from time to time
and
if I am looking for other people to love
it I'm in
I'm in hell
so all I can do is is learn to love
those aspects of myself
yeah something something further
interesting for me was uh how through
through my journey you know I've
identified by
you know learning about the fear
triangle I've often found myself
identifying as a savior and that's been
sort of one of the main roles that I've
sat in and there's a number of stories I
could tell
in a very general sense about how I was
in a dynamic with two other people and
there's probably a half a dozen people
who would think it was them I'm talking
about
and they'd be both right and wrong
right exactly the pattern replays itself
oh yeah yeah and also I've become more
and more recently I've been simmering in
how I've been doing this internally
when I'm recognizing a limiting belief
where I'm recognizing a some some sense
of identity that I'm trying to hold on
to and then I'm like aha here's how I
could construct an experience that gets
me out of that box or here's a workshop
I could go to to explore that and that's
that's my internal savior of like oh
look I see two parts of myself fighting
here's how I can
control the outcome without actually
feeling the emotions under underneath it
what I notice in what you're saying
there is uh
there's a little way in which when you
mimic the Savior voice inside of your
head it was derogatory
and I think that that's one of the
things that keeps the fear triangle in
place generally is that is the shame
that I spoke about earlier the shame of
being a bully or being a victim or being
a savior instead of seeing it is like
I'm scared I mean it's amazing it's like
you said this a lot of this
disintegrates when the bully says I'm
scared a lot of this disintegrates when
a victim says I can do this I have
Choice here a lot of this disintegrates
when a savior says all only person I can
do is save myself
and so it's this acknowledgment of the
fear without the Judgment that is the
the quickest way to disintegrate
the the fear triangle is just to
acknowledge that there's fear and
there's
we all get scared sometimes and so we
all get into power dynamics sometimes
it's the way it is it doesn't matter how
old you are almost and it and it
definitely doesn't matter
how much you've meditated you know
there's if there wasn't some of this
tension we wouldn't be alive it might
even be acknowledging that there's that
there's sadness or acknowledging that
there's hurt or that there's joy yes
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah all I would say
like we said before it's a constriction
fear anxiety that part of it is a
constriction of Life Force so it could
be anything but it is the acknowledgment
of what is yeah
and and to some degree when you're in
the when you're particularly in a power
Dynamic it's the fear of something maybe
it is the fear of sadness and maybe it's
a fear of Joy or pleasure often yeah
yeah so I I have a question for you you
talked about this like in movies you've
seen it unraveled
in a in a heartbeat and
also you mean in our in the work that
you've seen
me doing that we've done together you
also can see it unravel in a heartbeat
it's just like the whole the whole game
the whole War can be dropped it it
doesn't take anything to drop a hot
frying pan
I'm wondering if you have an experience
that you can share with us a story of
when you were in it and it just dropped
like a hot frying pan yeah absolutely so
this is a this is an example of one of
those stories that I think a half a
dozen people listening to will probably
think is about them yeah and you're
wrong and you're right
um yeah but yeah and a common pattern
for me coming from a family where I
always felt like I was trying to save
the peace and trying to you know make
you know everybody not fight and be in
harmony so that I could feel safe uh
I've recreated that a lot in my life and
one time
oh it was it was relatively recently it
was after we had talked about one of our
fear and anxiety episodes that we
recorded about a month back I was
feeling into the anxiety letting myself
just have it
including the helplessness
especially the helplessness of that as
much as I could [__] myself into
thinking it I actually didn't have power
over the situation all I had was how I
could show up and I wasn't enjoying the
way I was showing up and
I just showed up in a way that I enjoyed
more which meant that I wasn't in a
conversation feeling like I was holding
back and walking on eggshells I was in a
conversation saying what I felt needed
to be said and
also being okay with being imperfect
saying it being okay with maybe coming
off as a little bit of a bully and being
open to the feedback and iterating at
least getting myself out of the Savior
like better than mode that I had been in
and it was amazing how quickly things
changed in this particular instance uh
it was immediate my jaw was on the floor
two people that had had a lot of tension
with one another
I had a conversation with each one of
them that was just basically okay yeah I
validate your experience I understand
what you're feeling and also I'm not
going to be able to fix this for you
and I know that you can do this and you
can take responsibility for this
relationship yourself
and
and each of those I didn't feel entirely
clean in my delivery there was like some
new tension with me and the person that
I was speaking with that like they were
like hey wait a minute that's not
and I was like oh okay
and suddenly the whole thing shifted and
it shifted so quickly that I actually
couldn't even Trace back to was it even
could it even have been that I shifted
my Dynamic and then they shifted theirs
or did they shift theirs and then that
shifted mine yeah because I could hardly
even draw a causal relationship either
way yeah other than just noticing that
the whole thing fell away immediately
yeah and I was just grateful and enjoyed
like it happened just the moment that I
actually enjoyed showing up and didn't
feel
either resentful or in resistance or
afraid of showing up it's amazing what
just sharing our truth can do yeah yeah
pleasure pleasure Brett yeah until next
time all right thank you Joe all right
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign